Blog whats new in 3.20 (#950)
apache/camel-website: content/blog/2022/12/camel320-whatsnew/index.md

---
title: "Apache Camel 3.20 What's New"
date: 2022-12-21
authors: [davsclaus]
categories: ["Releases"]
preview: Details of what we have done in the Camel 3.20 release.
---

Apache Camel 3.20 has just been [released](/blog/2022/12/RELEASE-3.20.0/).

This release introduces a set of new features and noticeable improvements that we will cover in this blog post.

## Camel Core

> The Split EIP has been optimized to perform faster and reduced overhead, when splitting by a single separator char.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Split EIP has been optimized to perform faster and reduced overhead when splitting by a literal or a pattern.
```

Reviewer: it actually covers more than a single char if you are referring to https://github.com/apache/camel/pull/8570

and is exclusively available as part of the Java DSL.

The DSL can be accessed directly from the `RouteBuilder` thanks to the method `dataFormat()`.

### Language DSL

The Language DSL is a builder API that allows using type safe construction of Camel Languages,
and is exclusively available as part of the Java DSL.

The DSL can be accessed directly from the `RouteBuilder` thanks to the method `expression()`.

## Camel JBang (Camel CLI)

In this release we continue the expansion of Camel CLI.

Camel JBang now uses standard Maven for downloading JARs instead of using the ShrinkWrap project.

We have reduced the configuration summary _logging noise_ when using Kamelets.

Custom type converters are now detected by Camel JBang when downloading new JARs.

Camel JBang makes using `camel-micrometer` work out of the box, by automatic
creating a `MeterRegistry` if none is provided.

When using Rest DSL with api-doc enabled, then Camel JBang will automatically download `camel-openapi-java` if needed. 

Camel JBang now has shell completions which can be installed with the `camel completion` command,
to generate bash/zsh scripts.

> The `camel export` command now supports choose Gradle as build-tool instead of Maven.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camel export` command now supports Gradle as build-tool instead of Maven.
```

> We have also added new comments to easily get details about:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have also added new commands to easily get details about:
```

Reviewer: commands?

- metrics
- health-checks
- inflight messages
- blocked messages
- quickly check total message/failure (easily parseable in shell scripting)

The `camel doc main` command shows all the _main_ option in tables.

Camel JBang will now compile `csimple` languages on startup, if in use.

Added `camel run --code='...'` to quickly run some Java DSL code. 

> There is a lot more that Camel JBang can do, so make sure to see the [Camel JBang documentation](/manual/camel-jbang.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a lot more that Camel JBang can do, so make sure to read the [Camel JBang documentation](/manual/camel-jbang.html).
```

It is also a good idea to run `camel --help` to list all available commands.

> There you can also find information how to get JBang installed, and after that install the Camel app in JBang.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There you can also find information on how to get JBang installed and how to install the Camel app in JBang.
```

### Camel Open Telemetry

Camel can now correct associate spans across both synchronous and asynchronous endpoints.

### Camel YAML DSL

The `camel-yaml-dsl` schema now includes error handler and route configuration.

> Fixed intercept EIP did not work, when used in YAML DSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixed a bug preventing the intercept EIP to work when used in YAML DSL.
```

### Camel Kafka

Many bug fixes and smaller improvements.

### New Components

There are 8 new components:

> - `camel-etc3` - Get, set, delete or watch keys in etcd v3 key-value store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `camel-etcd3` - Get, set, delete or watch keys in etcd v3 key-value store.
```
